and now I would like to introduce a man
known to many of you Howard Zinn is a
teacher a historian and a playwright he
has written 10 books including one of
the most important books of our era
I think of people's history of the
United States
I've met people in Europe in Asia and in
Africa who tell me what wonderful
history books we have in this country I
say you've got to be kidding and they
said no no no mrs. ins history of the
United States they think they think
that's the standard textbook his plays
include Emma and daughter of Venus and
it's my pleasure to ask him to address
you now Howard Zinn
Thanks they I know you're applauding me
just because I have the nerve to
substitute with John Kenneth Galbraith
can you all hear me
yeah reliabilities admire John Kenneth
Galbraith and I wish him well and so we
get better soon
[Applause]
in the year 1948
the series of tablets were distributed
by the House Committee and American
activities entitled 100 things you
should know about communism I came
across this in my files I keep files on
them
it's only there I was impressed by the
thought that the committee knew 100
things about coming whether pamphlets
had 100 questions and answers question 1
what is communism the idea is to start
with something easy
something that requires a brief answer
answer a system by which one small group
seeks to rule the world the answer is
probably gone up by the people who later
founded a trilateral commission
[Music]
can I get to question 76 we're kind of
communist was that Mike Mike is that
better yeah okay don't want you to miss
this question question 76 where can a
communist be found in everyday life oh
this is nice and particularly interested
me because there have been times when I
was in need of the Communists
didn't know where to find one
answer look over him in your school your
labor using your church or your Civic
club question 86 is the YMCA and
communists target but it's really
worried that I always wanted why do so
much chlorine in the YMCA
and sir yes
so in the YWCA
let's skip to the year 1987 the year of
the investigation of conjugate Robert
McFarlane who you may remember conspired
with Poindexter Casey North scored and
almost certainly George Bush to violate
the laws on the Constitution Anna listen
for his pledge to give weapons to
terrorists in Central America and I
imagine our McFarland is a school child
probably distributed those leaflets the
pamphlet stood outside a house on
American Activities Committee to raise
money for go to college so prepare
himself for his career and to enable
them to pass the courses in political
theory that he was my national security
advisor for the president and later said
he knew that the policy of illegally
getting on to the Contras wouldn't work
not that it was wrong course but it
wouldn't work
he said succinctly cut which is very
well when where I went wrong was in not
having the guts to stand up in hell of
president's last to tell you the truth
probably the reason I didn't is because
if I had done that bill Casey Jean
Patrick and cap Weinberger would have
said I was some kind of a commie you
know
this really intriguing robert mcfarlane
some kind of a car me well yes you know
yeah
fact I was looking around here in Omori
Hall think he might have registered for
this conference but you know I don't
really understand why with hesitancy to
speak his mind to the president because
once an interview MacFarlane said I had
countless talks with the president but I
felt he wasn't absorbing what I was
telling them the all you can come up and
I'm sure with absurdities like this the
history of oh it's such a rich poor
history and you know it's the well I
don't know I'm thinking of that time
Harold build of Congressman Illinois
stood up in the house to oppose the
money or mobile libraries and
[Music]
is also in my files
he said mobile library services in rural
areas he said quote educating Americans
through the means of the library service
could bring about a change of their
political attitude quicker than any
other matter the basis of communism and
socialists ik influence is education of
the people
[Music]
although it is a little bizarre a little
collapsible of course it represents
something terribly serious view there
are certain words which are calculated
it's top series thinking you know and
stop rational discourse and aroused
stupid words which are murderers and
we've seen words used that way in our
time as another times the words you the
word and leading to mass murder
link chains and slavery the word
communists of course used in our time
hats more than anything else which
support the problem among dictatorships
all over the world
a penis chef and Marcus and Shawn in El
Salvador and Guatemala in the invasion
of other countries a bombing of peasant
villages and the destruction of the
economy of a small neighboring country
I'm talking about Nicaragua and the
robbing of the harder' and salaries of
so many Americans to finance these
thousands of billions of dollars of
stupid weapons so these are words are
serious murderers they're depleting of
our wealth limit and our energy because
there's news dispatch from Seattle into
an 86 quote a self-proclaimed soldier
against communism faces a death sentence
over a verdict today by a jury that
account of guilty of murdering four
members of the Charles Goldmark family
he murdered four members of the family
because he thought they were part of an
international conspiracy among
communists Jews and a Federal Reserve
Board
actually I thought he was quite sane
until he came to the Federal Reserve boy
because the rest of it just fits in with
Richard Nixon and so he FIFA words
designed to stop rational discussion
even radical exception communism I think
we do need sober serious discussion of
communism socially discussion Soviet
Union we criticism of the Soviet Union
on my product that we need anger and
indignation that the Soviet Union for
some of the things that have happened
there and some of the things that have
done people who were there I believe
that the policies so we have given
socialism a bad name and I I want
socialists have a good name
maybe the socialism in that I brought
with socialism for me got a good name
with with Karl Marx whom I knew
personally and Eugene debb's Helen
Keller a lot of people don't know Helen
tell us the socialism and how she leave
read dated actually put down because we
have use Emma Goldman
supposin have a good name but there's a
difference between the kind of
reasonable criticism you could have a
communism socialism Soviet Union of
governance of states whatever they call
himself the difference between that kind
of criticism of information and the kind
of murderous indiscriminate hatred which
leads us to threaten to drop bombs to
kill all of the citizens of this country
presumably the citizens of governments
where the citizens and so the victims we
pretend to kill all of them presumably
to save them as we've always been ready
to kill people to save them from
communism
so most recent murderous use of the term
communism was in the Vietnam War where
was used to justify everything one word
used to justify a ten-year war was
dropping the seven million bombs in the
dispatch of 5,000 troops and the
destruction of the country and a man
named Charles Bhutto from Louisiana told
the Criminal Investigation Division of
the US Army could I remember the unit's
combat assault on me life or the night
before the mission we are the briefing
by captain Medina he said everything in
the village was communist so we shot men
women and children and he now lives in
Monroe Louisiana with a wife and two
children he said I was 19 years old and
I'd always been told to do what the
government what the grown-ups told me to
do but now I'll tell my sons if the
government calls use your own judgment
now I don't even think there should be a
thing called war because it messes up a
person's mind mess up whole nation is
mine and it's done that now this is
Veterans Day by the way right it's
Veterans Day should remember
[Music]
letter says a good day to remember the
numbers of people who've been killed
because of murderous words used by
governments all over the world to its
instructed by trying to see that later
thought of this infantryman who was
there at me like massacre because I
think it suggests that this country
would not the same in its reaction to
those words after the Vietnam War as it
was when the war began I think it was a
learning a great learning it took place
as a result of the Vietnam War and the
millions of Americans I think have
learned to think twice about the cry of
communism and I think that's why the
American people are not ready to support
an invasion of Nicaragua Jessica's a
that it's a Marxist dictatorship and
communism is there and it's on our
southern flank which is you know a very
death threat to our biological functions
and
[Music]
so it but people don't really go along
with that and they can't whip up the
sentiments that they once used to be
able to do more easily and I think
that's a result of learning there's a
way in which the word communist can get
boring and I think oh there are some
people who are never bored by of course
but there are there the way in which you
can get boring when directed again and
again and again and again
at all sorts of targets they're
communists their communist this is
coming is that communist ah you know 10
cents more an hour
communist you know what I think
interesting things have happened the
civil rights movement was interesting I
have met a bunch of friends here who
from those days from the south and I
think they will corroborate this that
the movement I'm thinking now of the
student unbound Coordinating Committee
of the thinking the people around them
and people in Mississippi and Alabama
the accusations of communism made it
against the civil rights movement I
think I've given stick you didn't mean
anything because when people are engaged
in a struggle when people are facing the
realities and they know what's right and
wrong it's very clear and you can yell
communists all you want it's not going
to mean very much and the people in the
civil rights movement people and snakes
left often in theater wife start talking
about the dark influences right tark
influences to a black movement
[Music]
so or when you know colonists in all
these or Harry Truman the 1960s right
extremist yeah he was out of the White
House but still around and Truman in
1960 minute students began said he was
sure that the Communists behind it did
not need proof he said when asked for
proof you can ask your next president
true you know ask the president right
but he said he knew that wherever there
was trouble
probably communists were behind it well
and so I think we learned a lot I think
we are ensuring an intersect
we're lecturing and we're learning the
way people in other countries have
learned very often the hard way that the
use of the word communists in American
foreign policy meant a way of justifying
the Smashing of governments that we
didn't like and setting up a brutal
dictatorships that we did like but
[Music]
I'm living with a clock right and and
because I can't see the faces with
people behind me and I feel a certain
something building up
[Music]
let me just leave this way there's so
much to do right there's so much to do
there's so many problems to solve you
know there are people out there who
don't have a place to live the people
can't pay their rent right they're
people in hospitals who don't have the
people in the corridors of some of the
best medical centers in the country who
are waiting in the car is large enough
doctors and nurses take care of their
old people can't go down and home can't
go down to the dining room because
there's nobody who pushed in wheelchair
because there's no money for that and as
money could it be one bomber and there's
money for the stealth bomber there's
money for the child right there's money
all those stupid instruments that that
real problems out there real problems in
the world real things that we have to do
and then we need a debate about these
things we need to discuss these things
we didn't open the big no-holds-barred
communism socialism capitalism democracy
Liberty everything nobody should be
afraid people who themselves are accused
should not be afraid people accused of
liberalism should not be afraid people
are keeping communists would not be
afraid please talk about class we should
talk about internationalism please talk
about racism is talk about one world we
spoke about unilateral disarmament
nobody should ever say that right
never there's something to the other
okay
we talk about all of these things before
that
yeah and for that you must have nothing
standing in the way
I just want em people in the arts and I
was thinking that when I met John Kerry
for whom I met long ago we discovered
well we had known one another
really super guy and the arts and he he
was one of those people who's
blacklisted and and so on so it's great
thing being black person well the people
I've always had lots people in yards
always admired I respect they were you
know had very much more very often have
more courage than anybody else you know
they sang that they would believe
they're saying they spoke their things I
want to end over I didn't happen to
really remember Joseph Papp has been
questioned about house on American
Activities Committee estimate he is
introducing any communist stuff in this
place he said well I do Shakespeare you
know you know to thine own self be true
and the errands the staff director
interposition we are not saying that
William Shakespeare was the communist
I want to just close with with a
statement that bertolt brecht prepared
to make to the house on American
Activities Committee they'd never let
him make it but this is this what
Brett's was going to spend as part of a
practice going to say we are living in a
dangerous world our state of
civilization is such that mankind
already is capable of becoming enormous
ly wealthy but as a whole is still
poverty ridden great wars have been
suffered greater ones are eminent we are
told
do you not think that in such a
predicament every new idea should be
examined carefully and really oh I hope
that's what we'll do in these few days
[Music]
tonight's symposium is choosing the news
who sets the agenda you want to look a
bit closely at the mechanisms by which
certain facts about certain events
around the country and around the world
are selected for presentation to the
general public in the mainstream media
as quote the news close quote and in the
context of the theme of this conference
we want to examine the proposition that
anti-communist biases or myths conscious
or subliminal on the part of reporters
or editors or publishers or corporate
owners or a combination thereof might
affect that selection we have an
extremely distinguished panel before us
tonight and I will introduce them in
alphabetical order two places to my
right is Joanne ball who has been a
staff writer at the Boston Globe for six
years recently traveled to Mozambique
and wrote a very important series of
articles on that country in your local
paper on my immediate left I should say
on my extreme left
Alexander Coburn
election is the media Beijing already
a media critic and a columnist for the
Nation magazine The Wall Street Journal
and the LA Weekly a selection of his
writings entitled corruptions of Empire
has recently been published and is on
sale at this conference and but for the
one piece in it attacking me it's quite
a good book at the end of the table is
John Franco Cassini mr. Cassini has been
a journalist for more than 30 years
having been the editor of paisa Serra a
correspondent for La Stampa and at
present a special correspondent for
loony Tov Roman next to the end on my
right side Carl E Meyer is an editorial
writer at the New York Times before
moving to the times he spent 15 years at
the Washington Post and I should tell
you that he's one of the few people in
this room perhaps who ever actually had
Joseph McCarthy for his senator mr.
Meyer is a native of Wisconsin and a
graduate of the University of Wisconsin
and he wrote his PhD at Princeton on the
roots of McCarthyism
to my immediate right is Terry Shore
miss Shaw spent 18 years on the
Washington Post foreign desk still
writes for The Washington Post made
numerous trips to Latin America and has
written frequently on both Cuba and
Nicaragua at the far end of the table
mr. william Styron who may not need an
introduction but is in fact one of his
country's leading novelists and among
his many books are the confessions of
nat turner and Sophie's Choice - to my
left is mr. Wilbert a Tatum who is the
publisher and editor-in-chief of the New
York Amsterdam news majorem mr. Tatum
was deputy borough president of
Manhattan he was a director of the
office of Midtown planning and
development there let me note at the
outset that each of our distinguished
panelists appears here as an individual
and not as a representative as an
official representative of his or her
organization and I will assure the
panelists that although we might ask
them about various actions of the papers
of magazine in which they write with the
possible exception of mr. totem who is
an owner and must be more answerable
than some of the others who are
employees we are not going to hold them
responsible for everything which happens
that their work life
we will leave some time at the end of
the panel for questions from the
audience let me begin by raising one
topic for discussion and then turning it
to some of our panelists I think there
is no question but that anti-communism
is a factor in much of the media
presentations in this country just as it
is a factor in other aspects of our
national life but a more significant
question perhaps is whether it is a
value in our society or at least
perceived as a value Herbert ganz who's
written extensively on the subject of
choosing the news discusses values of
some lanes and I quote briefly from him
he said journalists try hard to be
objective but neither they nor anyone
else can in the end proceed without
values furthermore reality judgments are
never altogether divorced from values
the values in the news though are rarely
explicit and must be found between the
lines in what actors and activities are
reported for ignored and how they are
described and he gives a list of what he
sees as some of the enduring values in
the news of the past several decades
which includes ethnocentrism altruistic
democracy responsible capitalism
small-town pastoralism individualism
moderate ism social order and national
leadership and on the question of
responsible capitalism at the value he
says American news is of course
consistently critical of communist and
democratic socialist economies in fact
though foreign news is more worried
about the political and cultural
shortcomings of socialism or communism
to be sure both are considered suspect
because public ownership and other
socialist programs will do away with
private property and impair productivity
and growth but descriptions of existing
income distribution
in American health we're now regularly
employ that economic inequality is
undesirable even if they also apply to
income redistribution is not the right
solution still he says the primary
dangers of socialism are cultural
homogeneity erosion of political
liberties and the burgeoning of
bureaucracy he also pointed out that
although domestic politicians and
criticized governmental welfare measures
as socialistic communistic no longer get
quite the attention they once did
domestic news continues to remain
critical even if American socialism more
correctly that the news ignores them for
socialist pratik of the American economy
as well as the activities of America
socialist parties and informal groups
are not considered newsworthy and
perhaps we could start with that do the
media ignore socialist critiques of the
American economy
only because the AAP is not here to
start at all I will ask Carl Meyer of
the New York Times that he could comment
on that could I wave on that turn to
someone else sure who would I was going
to ask Alex to respond to you but let me
let Alex start to sue the American
mainstream media ignore socialist
criticisms of our economy of course they
do
oh god this thing is anchored to it pull
it up can you hear me yeah okay yeah of
course they ignore the mud I think the
thing is all a bit simpler than
sometimes people make it up
yeah communism as perceived by people
who run papers really means taking their
property away I mean what could be
simpler than that I've read it to
studying the agenda it's awesome not
really and a rather simple not my pros
who think I'm going to read us something
I wrote I'm not Averell Harriman
relateable Harman the unquestioned
member of the elite running this country
for very long time during the war
Newsweek began to criticize the
efficiency of daylight bombing of
Germany asking in fact whether this
terror bombing of the population was
doing much good and Lovitz Robert loved
it who is at the State Department asked
Harriman to do something about this now
Herman had invested in Newsweek and he
wrote to his brother roland was on the
board of directors he said tell Roland
that I'm in good earnest and will brook
no compromise
I have not supported Newsweek for 10
years through its great difficulties to
allow our high of men to use the
magazine to express their narrow
uninformed or insidious ideas Roland has
my full authority to use any strong arm
measures he considers necessary the
other directors can be asked to resign
if they do not go along now you should
really have that nailed up over the door
of every newspaper because when you say
to people how does the how does the the
line how do these stories come about
people say well you know it's something
it fell through the cracks you know how
is it the substance
didn't get deported oh I don't know
there was a decision which we can't
believe my back it all seems to be very
mysterious but the essential facts are
simple the newspapers television
stations radio stations publishing
companies in this country are owned by
private capital the bots the owners have
a clear idea of birth status and
function they wish to go on enjoying the
happy States has brought them to the
usually immense wealth they enjoy
and they wish to keep it that way now
the thing about communism is that it may
be this then maybe that with everybody
clearly understands that it probably
means taking money away from rich people
the absolute that really is the
nitty-gritty alpha situation the rich
man might become a poor man and the rich
person has the right like everybody else
to defend themselves so when you say now
let's get down to the question you want
something is not going to go on too long
I do this report critique of u.s.
society well the other night you know
watching the election return there was
Tom Brokaw I think it was Tom Brokaw you
know a completely free and independent
journalist it's true that the case we
the programmers you watch they were
featuring commercials in General
Electric which of course earns NBD and
one wondered how many times mr. Brokaw
would ever actually creature long
penetrating and critical investigation
of the product which his subsidiary part
of GE was presenting during the election
process and anyway at one point he said
to our bottle from the us-canadian it's
just a Soviet Union in Moscow he said
you know when you look at this something
like that you know when you look at this
extraordinary process this Democratic
curve then going on here then she will
let they ever come when you know you'll
have this kind of thing in your country
and our butt up said well you know one
not sure we want to millio it had let's
go chat use overuse of money incredible
vulgar ization of its use visible
corruption incredibly stupid things
being said week after week month after
month I'm not sure we wanted sir visitor
hold or club our butt off and then broke
or turn to chancellor who Delia defined
himself as a man of the extreme middle
and said he server said you know you
know those Russian knows how they always
turn the question back on you so
obviously the on surge of question is
know critics critiques of capita society
as made by Thursday's country don't give
up
and that was certainly better than ocean
one word answer we were all expecting
bill Tatum would you like to tell us as
some was the only publisher and media
owner here albeit not what most people
would classify as the establishment
media what about the Amsterdam news to
you you will be extremely critical of
the Reagan administration policy in
Africa for example will you be critical
of the economic policy absolutely
[Music]
independent of those who decided one
time in their life to become commission
I have you recall line that I'll
paraphrase for him freedom of the press
belongs to he who owns one now I have
got to describe to you that's important
in terms of the backdrop here um I have
real ends for the National Guardian and
they're not gone to Sweden to write for
Stockholm TV and do column there and to
do some general assignments or that
Social Democratic newspaper I could not
get a job in the United States and the
quote regular friend during those years
and like those papers the Amsterdam is
in particular I was trying absorb all
those blacks who wish to deregulate I
couldn't get a job there either I became
a freelancer and then I went to Europe
to work in Denmark Sweden in Norway and
wrote anywhere in the world that I could
when I came back to America
I discovered a stupid couldn't get a job
doing what I wanted to do and then as a
freelancer I've got an assignment and
that assignment had something to do
something I don't even remember but with
an eternity time again I wasn't to get
$150 for and I needed name around and
the editor said it was marvelous except
it wasn't what he wanted and he said I
had to change me and I insisted
we exchanged it give me my money
he said no money
Eugene well I just gotten back I had no
money and finally I want I'm crying
containing it in order to pay the rent
feather the day I decided
[Music]
there is a standing order a
manifestation that when I write anything
from anywhere in the world that not one
line is to be changed without my
approval even if it's wrong I say that
for very simple reason in terms of
anti-communism and those in American who
happen to be black who have never really
felt that they were real part of any
communist or real next wing movement I'm
saddened by that effect because as I
recall my day that kept mutagen sitting
around a campfire singing jovial
remembering our dream by photo last
night Elijah to the survivors you
continious dead and if it dies for me
I'm in the diversity the last 15 to 20
years Joe Hill had God and I go for the
country such as this my pretty much the
spirit everyone had in her the Joe Hill
[Music]
thank you well while we raised the
question of racism Livie let me bring a
further point on that and see if some
other of our panelists can comment
astonishingly or perhaps not astonishing
to those people in the industry more
than half of the seventeen hundred
some-odd daily newspapers in the United
States have never employed ever a single
black or Latino or Asian American
journalist and although minorities make
up 20% of the population or more only
about 5.7 percent of all working
professional journalists come from
minority groups and the large majority
of those work for minority owned papers
and radio stations according to the
latest figures there are only about two
dozen black editorial board writers in
the entire United States and it
certainly has been suggested that the
disparity leads to more racist news
coverage in issues like crime reporting
where one could argue we are led to
believe that almost every crime victim
is white and almost every crime
perpetrator is like in covering the
homeless and in cases like Howard Beach
and Bernard Goetz and most recently in
the reporting on the Jackson campaign
there are certainly strong arguments
being made in progressive communities
that the white press coverage of the
Jackson campaign was racist and I'd like
to ask our panelists if they think that
Jesse Jackson campaign was covered
early if not why not and perhaps someone
on this side which story is it if it's
not on Assam the past at night magic
Joanne bull give it time
should we use the other one for an hour
we'll try that 30 seconds
[Music]
give it a chance
hello hello okay one of the things that
wasn't talked about a lot during the
three years that the campaign was going
on images were been here that is exact
and was an official candidate word that
you can use he for the most part would
treat it like a curiosity and that
mainly a kind of continuation of how a
lot of black Americans are treated in
this country particularly educated
middle class black American and the
question that was always raised and then
it is not being raised round after
Michigan was what was Jesse one though
he wanted something different from
anyone else who was running for
president and if anything the campaign
that he ran did was to open a lot of
doors not just for other politicians who
were trying to carry on and go onto his
coattails but open doors were blackened
quarters who had not ever had the
opportunity to cover a national campaign
for a while I was one of those who was
on the bus and that's a good eye one gun
preemption did some reporting here in
Memphis
such that the campaign was here and it
was always amazing to me how the stories
were played in comparison to what we
thought out there in the field and a lot
of times things that we thought were
most important that that Jackson had
said or that it happened has got barely
a mention and I know that that is true
in general but it had a way of making us
realize that there is a certain
stratification of what is covered in
when it when it comes to race and that
those things that that he would say or
that with some other quote unquote black
issues may not have been treated as
seriously and black before the thought
they should have been or treated in a
way that's a part of the mainstream news
that would be shunted off to its side
sometimes and though the things that you
constantly guard themself again if
you're black before you making sure that
you're not being as the covering
something because you're a black and
quarter or you are that you bring
something to that that you know or fast
you will make better because of your
ring and it's a tricky business but I
think that when the day ever comes that
newsroom do have a greater
representation of all races
more women that you will not fall into
the problems of second-guessing
ourselves as much and wondering how
things would be viewing and whether they
will be used with the same kind of
serious mrs. dipplewhite with wardrobe
rolling orbit will be placed in the same
place as a story written by another
reporter so you want to loose on as you
can see that the Washington Post and I'm
not holding you responsible proposed but
was it fine large fare to Jessie do you
think well I would rather respond to
something else Joanne and that I think
is relevant in terms of anti-communism
which I don't think there's too much a
factor in the judge me Jackson campaign
but in coverage in Latin America I think
a lot of the problems Joanne mentioned
also occur the fact that the reporters
on the scene they have a much better
sense how people feel where they are and
what the important issues are and when
the information filters back to the
death in my case in Washington if it is
not taken seriously it minimized there
are a lot of reasons for that partly is
the cultural training education and
preparation of the journaler those who
have lived and worked in foreign
countries tend to be much more sensitive
and aware of the concerns of people in
the third world countries the concerns
that we heard this afternoon and the
point of view we heard this afternoon
not totally sympathetic in any by any
means but more sympathetic than the
people of Washington but when the news
gets back to Washington there's there's
a lot of competition among different
sections of the newspaper to get stories
on the front
we have what he called a news conference
of every afternoon with the top editors
of the post and the editors of the
national the foreign the Metro in the
Style section meet with Ed Bradley
landowning the executive and Managing
Editors and compete to give their
stories on the front page and it's very
much a sort of macho playing hardball
kind of thing and there's a lot of
competition presented stories
hard-hitting top news stories when my
strength has been the stories that
express what I see is perhaps concern
and sympathy for certain certain
third-world issues are not considered
the right kind of news stories to go on
the front page and reporters after a
while become discouraged because they
want they need for their stories to be
on the front page to advance their
careers an example from my
undistinguished career at the Washington
Post was when I was in the Carazo
for the sixth anniversary of the
revolution I thought it would be a great
idea to write a story about one not
low-level Sundanese activist or militant
who worked out in the countryside and
just try to tell the story of his own
word how he became involved in
revolution what he expected the
revolution to do for him and the people
of his town and I wrote it up
independent of the outlook section which
is the Sunday section is published in
sort of opinion in the analytical pieces
and it was sent back to me and I was
told that it was too much of an ode to
the founda Nesmith the implication being
that it was too naive and that I was
perhaps being used and manipulated by
the family means that I was not critical
enough so I think it's part of that that
mindset there's more to it than that the
anti-communist bias and the median in
all of them American society but I think
that's part of the competition had a
hard-hitting story
I should point out that the bill Styron
asked to join this panel as a reader
rather than a writer and as someone who
studies the newspaper we can't blame him
for anything that appears in the
newspapers but did were you just me
would you like to comment on this
question not a lil alive I know really
all of my vote will be what what
question you meaning specifically I'm
sorry I thought you just did to me that
you wanted there was no no I'd rather
say bye let me ask the car Oh a first
question how marhaus do you think the
the major papers were on the whole fair
to Jesse Jackson or fair to his campaign
and whatever I would answer in my own
way and I'll take want to take it around
the first I want to say something very
important that I owe my presence here to
one of the worst pieces of legislation
in Congress ever passed McCarran act and
the reason this excel was back in 1962 I
got a call from the Polish journalist in
New York and he said that an Italian
friend of his one young Bronco crostini
had been admitted to the United States
to cover the United Nations but since he
was a communist he couldn't leave New
York City he couldn't leave in fact
Manhattan Island unless he had the name
of someone that he could name as a host
or visit and would I serve I said on one
condition I'd be delighted that we have
lunch not knowing what to expect
Christine II came to Washington and I
found this delightful charming
sophisticated Italian spoke better
English and I did
and who explained to me some of the
complicated dimensions of Italian
communism about which I knew little and
then he said to me he said do you think
I could talk to someone in the White
House Arthur Schlesinger so I call up
and I said I have in my office
the foreign editor of plays there who
would like to meet with you and
said well on three conditions first off
the record
second not in the White House third you
belong the witness so I was there the
witness when my friend Corsini said to
Schlesinger so that I'm really here to
tell you that you may find this hard to
believe but there are people in the
Italian Communist than what John Kennedy
succeeds and are sympathetics many of
the things he's trying to do and this
led to a very interesting exchange now
years past
I maintain there's wonderful friendship
with my friend Lully his nickname is
he's known to his friend and the other
day he called me up they said this
conference going on in Cambridge what I
could I'd be delighted so that on the
ton of iniquity that this dreadful act
has caused one mitigating Littlefeather
is on the other side that the mysterious
process has worked out where I am again
with my good friend Corsini
now having said something of our
background I really wanted to talk about
the premises of a lot of the discussions
and to in the spirit that mr. Zinn said
of presenting other points of view and
other ideas to challenge some of the
premises of what we're saying I think
that the premise in the whole title of
the of the tunnel of who manages the
agenda
is it first of all if there's some kind
of management that there is an invisible
hand or a visible hand and number two
that the management of the agenda is
what fundamentally conditions people's
attitudes to the Soviet Union and
permanently now there's a lot of truth
there is management what the way papers
handle obviously affects it but I want
to say that I think that the tendency is
often excessively exaggerated that it's
a view held from many many quarters vice
president Agnew
had the same view that a secret
conspiracy existed to foist on the
people of liberal agenda David Albers
them and his book the powers that be the
very title of the book proclaimed the
idea that that there's this power that
can decide elections that can switch the
fate of Nations I think that there's a
large part of the lusion in this but
it's I think interesting that the
greatest of all movies that I've seen
citizen change is about a publisher who
went mad because he believes that press
power could be translated into political
power that Citizen Kane Orson Welles was
an extreme statement of a common
tendency among proprietors I would like
mr. Tatem maybe to discuss take up this
point I can go with
now let me put the opposite
consideration consideration number one
that is not the messenger but the
message that really matters
the Franklin Roosevelt was opposed
overwhelmingly in almost every election
and certainly in his last three
elections by the American editorial
writer is impressed it didn't make any
difference because he came on radio and
was able to take his message directly to
an audience that overrode whatever the
newspapers may have said that columnist
may have said now to take more narrowly
the questions coming it's certainly true
that there's an anti-communist bias
ludicrous to deny of sure there is but I
mean put you an interesting thing at the
time the Iowa caucus when him Gorbachev
was in Washington it was that to mr.
Gorbachev you know is we taken polls we
found that are more popular than any
Democrat who's running in in Iowa I was
just in Germany and I was told in
Germany that the most popular political
figure in Germany is now Mikhail
Gorbachev so much so the two weeks ago
Chancellor Kohl Christian Democrat was
in Moscow obviously trying to translate
and use some of the magnetism that the
Gorbachev has for all Europeans to his
own personal benefit now why is it that
Gorbachev had this popularity well this
morning I had the good fortune to see
Andrei Sakharov who in here for the
first time and who a few years ago it
seemed an impossible idea that he'd ever
even leave the Soviet Union he was a
prisoner in Gorky
he was watched day and night he was
there six years he had to go on hunger
strikes to get his wife to get medical
treatment outside of the Soviet Union
when Mikhail Gorbachev had a telephone
installed in the house that
[Music]
that Sakharov was living in Gorky and
one phone call came the very next day
the phone booth over the next day a
phone call came saying Andrey
doctor doctor off our andrey i forget
the diminutive in it
this is mikhail gorbachev we would like
you to come back to moscow to resume
your work that single gesture that
unconditional relief of a man who is
kept under house arrest for the cruelly
a man whose crime was to speak out for
human rights to speak out for a freer
and more democratic system i think did
probably more than any other single
gesture that gorbachev but in his three
or four years in office carried out but
that changed the attitude combine that
with the fact that he's had a series of
the policy changes in a soviet union
that are interesting and attractive to a
lot of people that he's been able to
make a vigorous case for himself
directly on american television which is
more important than a lot of the stuff a
lot of the garbage that gets published
that reflects the kind of ignorant
stupid fourth-rate superstition written
and i communism so that in the case
let's say to come back to jesse jackson
if the press is exquisitely fair if the
press was exquisitely fair i don't think
that that would in that's not that's not
the consider it's not in the power of
the press to nominate jesse jackson and
that
[Music]
I'm pleased to have an unpopular view on
this let me ask your Alex to respond to
that in member well I think called
allocution so ill astray 'td something i
was tried to say at the very beginning
which is when you press people on you
know has the press how do they owners
after the the proposition Spanish into I
mean with all due respect for a
telescope verbal fog you know you
suddenly find it is a conspiracy does it
really have any influence other things
have influence oppose other things have
influence of course the deeds of
politicians have influence but if I
think already delete what are you saying
about the relative lack of influence
them I don't know why he is spending a
time writing editorials for the New York
Times the system living it's illegal but
there are other things you know creeping
things like that but um first name
reason that you scribble in the nation
Alex yeah but I'm the living I think
your function is a serious one I'm
taking your function well you're the
serious one - I mean we can discuss the
road in seriousness of the nation the
New York Times
but the point I'm making is this when my
father joined the London Times he said
that if he have an uncle it was a high
up at the time he said who sets the
policy of the time and the uncles their
dumb policy of the times is set by a
committee that never means by which I
think he meant you know the collective
opinion in the ruling class not to put
too fine a point on it now so goes
directly to for the last few years
Carlist in writing editorials about
central latin america now these have
been very important now I think I would
submit that it'd be very unlikely at any
point whether he or anyone else on the
editorial board rather than that you
suddenly find an editorial saying that
in many ways aspects of the Tanzania sir
experience have been an unqualified
success
and that programs of literacy education
of the rest of it were really very very
good and the principals the private
leadership perhaps might be very into
question
track Chomsky I think once did an
analysis of editorials and columns on
the editorial pages and op-ed pages of
the Washington Post and The New York
Times over a period of I think three
months as I recall it there were 81
columns and editorials and I think not
one had any recognition of any positive
achievements by the Sandinistas now to
go to Jackson I mean saying so I think
this is an important part of a gendered
session
The Times editorial pages are read by
the people who run the networks they're
actually willy nilly read by people
running papers around the country I
think very unfortunately the editorial
pages and the front pages of the
Washington Post and in
chimes have been absurd overweight in
the setting of the terms of national
discourse it's what people in Washington
to be with the post turn to they look
what is the order of business
unfortunately because there is some mad
idea which i think is receded that
somehow these papers are part of the
perhaps stemming from the days of Spiro
Agnew who is of course an ignoramus
whose speeches were written in large
part by colonists now working for the
New York Times built upon it was put
there by the proprietor I think during
Watergate to say let's not go too far
here the agenda is set by these papers
which actually if you read a number of
papers across the country are far more
conservative editorial position than
many people in the Midwest and to take
on the West
so this matter of agenda setting in
which I think editorial opinion is
extremely important and I think the
editorial opinion as written by people
like Carl reflects the limits of what
they think what they think what they
think they can get away with in the
prevailing political situation in the
New York Times and The Washington Post
whose owners Katharine Graham and it's
all saga family I'm not known to be
communist but just not
let's go to Jack's now Jackson was
obesity was tremendous racism by the
press absolutely no question about
I might remind you of the headline in
the New York Times when Jackson won
Louisiana in the primary in 1984 the
class by any black in any state
presidential our primary contest in the
history of the United States first time
in the nation's history the headline was
Jackson takes Louisiana vote in low
turnout I don't think he saw Bush wins
presidency in low Turner
now why would why was Jackson under such
attack by the press I think it's beyond
beyond contest that he was under
tremendously posh unfair attack and his
achievements if you look at the
headlines around super Tuesday
particularly ignored when his political
achievements should not have been
ignored and I think actually the reason
is impart racism and in part reverse to
our oprand anti-communism because
Jackson is not only a black person his
revolt of the radical person and the
number of times I've read the columnist
white colonists and pundits saying if
only representative William Graham
Pennsylvania was running a responsible
that how great it would be what he
wasn't Jackson was running and what did
Jackson do Jackson went to visit he went
to Cuba
he went to Nicaragua were still he went
to shook hands with Yasser Arafat kissed
him on both cheeks a fatal mistake
and that's why Jackson got wasted
because he represented a seriously
radical pause in American politics which
he still does and if you read the papers
today tomorrow and yesterday you will
see already the warning shots from
editorial opinion but once again Jackson
is trying to lead the Democratic Party
down and thoroughly unappetizing
let me ask mr. porcini has as the only
non-american journalist here and having
some ability to look at the American
press as an outsider although you've
spent a lot of time in the United States
what did you think about this the
coverage of the election campaign and in
particular the way the Jackson campaign
was treated but first of all thank my
god please allow the mean of us and
obviously we be principled over 25 years
it would must have something although
I'm party and he's not and I will and
any greater question because especially
enough when I was introduced as each
other and responded no mention was made
of the fact that I am now the special
correspondent of the Communist Party
national newspaper solitude so I am I
guess only leading companies
around the state
I'm glad about this I'm glad that is
phenomenal because maybe at the end of
what I say might some people might have
thought that I was concentration almost
trying to describe to me that I would be
famous with a general prejudice that
come on me anything my friends know how
I feel about you too because I've been
writing about this problems for 13 years
I am I am not any longer to see a very
fortunate I am for it exported the
nation and others and so to say on the
whole in action and are changing so much
diversity and discussing the problem
when it comes but when it comes to the
question of the tress and they say
immediately
the printed press is only one part now
of it because you know people
information set up I had difficulty in
following the so-called conspiracy
theory that has been developed through
the years by many students students and
also European students of open media of
the nature and influence of media I can
say identity that make some observations
from the point of view of a European who
has invested writes about this country
who is very interested in this country
and therefore has to make very hard use
of the American media open of the type
of information of letters to get in this
country in order to have data in order
to inform itself in order to understand
what's going on
and when I hear about the conspiracy
that is going on in this country I'm
wondering you know what what people
believe is happening young let's talk
about Western Europe now the Western
world in poverty tables they say a
certain medicine England oh that things
are going better in Europe or that
they're working in the United States I
think the Italian example could be of
interest probably because the eatery is
the only Western country where you have
the very arts on this party which
represents one-third of the population
more or less profitable - hit on one
parameter important it's a it's a
democratic country with a very
democratic progressive Constitution that
was approved after the world and we have
a progressed but at the same time
television is a government property
television is run by the government is
owned by if we go into what you call up
the television but only in the sense of
that it is the government that who was
special committee no controls tex-mex
importance
therefore we can say that in Italy and
the conspiracy is very clear the
government posted his vegetables and the
forever me here on the air I'm gonna
have to filter through the hour of the
political parties that are not part of
the government each one of them has to
mention station positions one of the of
the channels and in when we have an
actual you know the news are made by
political parties to run and what about
your position of course come this party
represents one-third to come
is as access limited access to
television as the possibility of
publishing his own papers it is Monday
and he has important that inspector but
what about all the rest the Italian
president is not expression of big
corporations you know big conglomerates
a easy the expression of several
political parties that directly or
indirectly on this place and also are
the parties that have been run eateries
for over forty years when it come to the
space and this is a point I want to make
for the first time I have a feeling the
habitability questions may be naive
feeling for the best time of any access
within wide range of opinions
informations applications that would be
unthinkable in Italy in our Italian
system just stick to the example that
has
I mean what like me all the other
foreign correspondents are using the
bread the American press and the media
you know to gather information in to
interpret all we talk about what's going
on in the United States now as far as
Jackson's concerned I think that the
enormous coverage that Jackson has had
in earlier during the primaries I have
written two editorial subjects in my
newspaper
another about primaries we should be a
very you know very American affair of
little concern for countries of
chirality but the great investor that
there is meaning you know has been the
consequence of the trend that European
correspondent say in the United States
we're all bothered by an amount of
information whether it is that biased or
unbiased but so weak so detailed so
intense about detection a failure they
saluted drip tray from the party this is
only to say that apart from the biases
there are typical in our Western society
of any type of of any type of
information he
warning the amount of information that
is distributed to the public through
email to be important I think eating
itself something that should not be
underestimated
because through this what a lot of
people whether they are foreigners or
eat or Americans can't eat a lot of
details of various ideas that in my
opinion are denied to many of the
European air audiences by address that
is much more limited in scope and I
would say in curiosity let me let me
pick up on one point you made about the
fact that there is a great deal of
quantity of information in this country
and there's no question many of us think
there's almost an information overload
in this country the quality of that
information however is sometimes suspect
and it may be one thing to say
it may be one thing to say there were a
thousand stories about a particular
aspect of the Jackson campaign but if
every one of them told the same lie the
fact that there were a thousand doesn't
make it any better
I want to close the question for
discussion and bring up something that I
know that bill Styron knows something
about I want to ask him about and that's
the question of double standards or what
I might call it dichotomy in thresholds
of police I think for example that a
good case can be made that most of the
press in this country are willing to
believe or at least to accept as a
working assumption almost anything being
done by the Soviets that they would
never accept without many levels of
proof on the part of them and an ally or
an American that the the Bulgarian
connection being a prime example where
it was perfectly reasonable to assume as
your starting premise that the Soviet
Union would try to assassinate two folk
and I wonder whether that's because of
some form of anti-communism are we
conditioned to assume that communist
might be perfectly willing to murder a
pope put that non-communist wouldn't be
quite willing to do it I also think
there's a very different level of
treatment in for example the allegations
of chemical warfare being used by the
Cambodians and the Vietnamese as opposed
to the same allegations against the
Iraqis I think indeed the evidence is
pretty clear now that in the case of the
Cambodians it was untrue and in the case
of the Iraqis it was true and the press
gave the opposite impression that leads
me to connect our challenge practically
everything you said you can but I want
to call I want to finish I think fallen
bill Styron then I'll Jarrell on you and
I hope I have some friends in the
audience that can deal with that during
the during the question I don't I want
to ask well I know this well I was going
to say does anyone on the panel dispute
I will change does anyone except Carl on
the panel dispute that the media
coverage of elections in El Salvador for
example
differed from the coverage of elections
in Nicaragua
[Music]
no I know bill Styron was in Nicaragua
and covered some of the the peace treaty
negotiation I want to ask him what he
thought about the coverage of those
negotiations well first I'd like to
preface whatever our saber attacked from
by saying that I'm the only remember
this panel view is not a journalist
although I've written journalism I feel
a little out of my depth because it's
it's not my preoccupation is with the
ladies and gentlemen here I respect
journalism very much I think it's a very
important plays a very important
function in our society but I didn't
want to make that caveat and that I am
I'm not I'm not an expert on the nuts
and bolts of journalism I did however
find myself in a situation of profound
moral indignation last the summer before
last during the Iran Contra hearings
when I I suppose it I was in the Marines
in both World War two and the Korean War
as an officer in a listed man and they
say once a marine always a marine which
is unfortunately a truism that we
actually
have to bear I saw Oliver North as a man
who had betrayed almost everything
it seems to me that the rancor had ever
stood for as a result I immediately got
in touch with good friend of mine the
distinguished Mexican novelist Carlos
Fuentes who gave a magnificent
commencement address here number of
years ago and said we had to go to
Nicaragua and we did I I wish that the
the spirit of Joe Hill that mr. Tatem
had just mentioned has had been part of
our our own spirit his country I'm
appalled at the fact that most writers
intellectuals have viewed that wretched
little war in Nicaragua with such
equanimity to me it's been a disgrace
that there has not been more outrage
expressed but at any rate I determined
to go down there I went with Carlos with
full knowledge that when I came away the
report eyes in the newspapers and I'm
speaking specifically of the New York
Times which is I suppose I read like
Russians read Pravda
[Music]
because it's the it's the only newspaper
that I can lay hands on in my little
country town in Connecticut
except for USA Today and I was astounded
cuentas and I who were indeed the guests
of the Sandinistas about whom I have
reservations but far less reservations
than I do about Ronald Reagan and his
monstrous aggression we were there for
eight or nine days and we were
privileged just by historical chance to
go to the the meeting in San Jose of the
Central American presidents to ratify
the Arias peace plan it was an
extraordinary as I say fortuitous
accidental sort of thing because we
hadn't planned it that way but we went
along with President Ortega who at
dinner the night before the meeting in
San Jose rather nervously told us that
the plane which was going to take us to
San Jose had been canceled because
redeye missile had been spotted by the
intelligence and so we went by plus
which gave us all
a great bit of a relief the the meeting
exhaust itself is extraordinary and
cuentas and I were like flies on the
wall we were there when this amazing
delegation US congressman led by
fortunately by the estimable Lee
Hamilton a confronted Ortega and
presented him with the news that he'd
better shape up or else it was it was an
interesting confrontation who's done
very politely and as it turned out as
you all know the hairiest peace plan was
ratified the when we got back to the
United States I was astounded by the the
reporting largely that of James Lemoine
who I could only say was a liar
I do not have a sheath of the articles
written by Lemoine to corroborate this
statement I just made but I can assure
you every virtual e-everything Lemoine
said about the peace process the and the
subsequent events was at variance with
what Winterson I observed I might add
just in passing that la prensa which was
of course banned for a while was the ban
was released the day after we got back
to Managua and it described the the meal
that Fuentes and I presumably were given
by Daniel Ortega and his wife and I
quote translated from the Spanish crab
meat casserole or town squab with Morel
sauce Apple blinis with prunes which is
not at all like the tamales and beans
that we were actually fed but this is
what la prensa
field is their version of the truth in
short I do want to I do want to to
interject one other comment I totally
without knowing of mr. Meyer would be
sitting to my left eye I brought to the
from from my house in Connecticut a New
York Times editorial of which it might
surprise you is to my mind a very sound
and very judicious editorial called
Reagan's contra war Reagan's failure it
was written mr. Meyer told me just now
by himself and I think it's well
balanced but the point is this how do we
deal with a with a press with a
monolithic newspaper like the New York
Times which demonstrates such incredible
schizophrenia this thing's to me the one
of the matters which you have not
addressed and I'd like to see see it
further taking president
[Applause]
we'll bill Tatum have been waiting to
respond for some time let me ask you to
use the mic in an elder goin for missus
Tyra do you attack to do your kind you
attack it just recently in the manner of
Warner Brawley there was a critic of
media by Fred friendly and Dean panel
attorneys on the incoming warhead
business it was pretty much like this
and trying to determine how media has
responded to the Tawana growth story as
all of you know someone the information
from the grand jury to the New York
Times two or three days prior to the
release of the grand jury report it was
said that the grand jury report was not
been completed yet after a long story in
The New York Times things for instance
will taste or what animated without a
violation
but a buck of people who contributed to
the story without telling when produced
a story following they in the tutorial
problem the lead editorial that said
before the grand jury report one you
that to water quality in the liar and
Mason mattis Sharpton or Sheldon I
attack the you know - or rushing to
judgment because the to one of the older
story is not yet a word and then
something very curious happen
I got a letter from McLaughlin corner
for the New York Times of work they're
living in describing in some detail what
has happened at the time in terms of the
water bronec story and I will sadly
because for any journalist to never
believe anything about the prep the
neocon - sort of like a Bible because
you really get to understand by
traveling throughout the world the
different kinds of spin that get put on
different kinds of stories and I'm not
really attacking than the all-tournament
attentive power and the abuse of power
Jesse Jackson anyone who can fit and
they that being reported the unfairness
of the reporting north
that's the reporting on Jesse Jackson
from 84 would not one of the most biased
biased a genuine moment in American
journalism history and even the biggest
liar in the world or the biggest fool I
spent a lot of time with Jesse Jackson
and I know Jesse Jackson women and who
ride from one place to another in a car
only 100 people individually to him
describe his version of a story for the
period or to be with Jesse reporting a
story that somebody else's isn't Fortius
its to making of your profession but
nothing the ones kept forever here I
wanna show you something if you will
allow a moment today's edition of the
Amsterdam news has an editorial about
Jesse and the very thing in a very short
one
everything we talked about earlier and
it says in part this is the first day of
the rhythm of Jesse Jackson
life and so is ours as well the last
month his presidential campaign have
been very difficult for us we gave our
loyalty an artful advocacy to an
ungrateful candidate as well as to a
group of wimps running the Democratic
National Committee
who abused us with their Apocrypha and
insulted us with their own injuries that
alone would not have been difficult to
swallow
we have weathered hard times before even
from those who told us that they were
our friend but this time it was
different
out of Boston from the heart of
encompass Canada came an excision of
such arrogance as believed those who
children to be a member of a wedding
wedding
shaken by the incompetence and couldn't
end for those who would like who truly
wished to serve and the end result to
mobility projecting were unbearable yet
just as we stated course and
justification just an in the air to what
is left of the Democratic Party
there are others who will they claim to
it but it is dishing into that bastion
of liberalism that the leaders of the
Democratic Party of trying to deny this
video brought the party understandeth
bearers to their meeting they pretended
to that the black tries to darkness and
in so doing negated the most direct and
trusted root to blossom where Jessa can
in fact take the party almost anywhere
he wants to go and we are prepared to go
this time
there must be something in a promise
like a better life in America for those
who don't work and the fair share of the
economic not the next presidential
campaign has already begun and we must
live in two people alive
try reading a black thread sometimes
you'll understand what the other press
is talking about it I'm glad to see that
bill Tatum has decided to branch out
many of you may not know but for about
two years he's written an editorial
every single week in the Amsterdam news
called mayor Cox must resign it's safe
it saves I think it saves them a little
money in typesetting cost because it's
the same title for the editorial every
single reader this week is the one
hundred and fortieth edition and USA
Today called me saying there we're going
to run a story on it because when I
started eighty-six percent of the black
people in New York City responded
station three to eight when I car and
the last poll and because America called
on our children 84 percent of life
people do not respond they now on attack
let me I want to ask Carl to respond to
some of the points that I know he wants
to respond to I would also like someone
from the program committee if they could
come up and slipped me a note and let me
know what our time in this room is
because I want to start taking some
questions from the audience
momentarily and with someone what to
bring us up some water from Carl thank
you I well I really think that being the
last comments illustrate the very point
that I want to make I want to start with
talking first to my friend Alec Coburn
who told this good story about his
father being out of time
and then he spoke of the influence that
the editorials in my newspaper and in
the Washington Post talent and I agree
with it I mean I will say to me about
them but the Assumption in what Alex
said was that these were the sole
sources of information that people did
and it seems to me that the overwhelming
and triumphant and listen to me before
you start hitting the overwhelming and
triumphant point is that there's a
multiplicity of sources that people get
information from otherwise how if
historian nicaragua has been so badly
told do you explain the fact that
opinion polls over and again show that
there is no support in the United States
for the Contras
you
let's go for you hold on let's let's let
him finish and how to have a say we're
going to have questions from the
audience and I know Alex wants to
respond although I first let me let me
ask are we yellow says if I if I make
pressure on the years ago I talked to a
Soviet journalist and I asked him what
papers he regarded as the equivalence
provident he said then it was Time
magazine which I thought was a rather
shrewd remark because this is in the
height of a loose era I would say that
now that the equivalent at least
rhetorically is the Wall Street Journal
that no newspaper at least edits poorly
has taken such a sharply angled
ideological spin one thing in particular
I'd like to mention the Wall Street
Journal more than any other paper in the
United States Marine Li took up the case
that the Soviet Union was using chemical
warfare in Indochina and that yellow
rain was the result of this I'm pleased
to say that colleague of mine on the
time wrote a series of editorials taking
up the case of Professor Nicholson here
methyls and that's what I said at MIT
who consistently and rationally exposed
the shortcomings in the official version
now in the end people did have access to
other views even in what I would call
the closest thing to Pravda that if you
look on the op-ed side of the wall
street journal you will find at least
once every week or so my colleague Alex
Coburn you will also find a number of
stories whose premises and whose
information go contrary to the editorial
credit
of the Wall Street Journal this I submit
is one of the strengths of a very
muddled press system that we have that
there is such a variety such as as you
quite rightly said and an overkill of
information that you can find out in the
interstices of this system many things
about that that feed into the net
impression that we have about our
politics that take up the point about
the times as coverage it's certainly
true and I'm not going to get into a
detailed discussion of I'm not in the
new part of the paper or whether this
story was better this story was good but
what is certainly also true is no paper
subject to such relentless scrutiny but
so many critics from the left and the
right that when the coverage came up on
the Tawana Brawley case the reporter did
write the letter to the Amsterdam news
the paper that you published the letter
what happened to that reporter was the
reporter still at the New York Times I
talked to the night before last we still
there okay
The Washington Post ran a story saying
repeating all the criticisms correct
other media took up this case went into
the whole analysis of it that for
despite your feeling that there is an
arrogance here
would you agree would you agree you talk
about what's the meaning to you okay but
the coverage in the Broly case has been
examined and argued about in other
publications and that this is by no
means something that just the one side
has been presented on sure no problem
what you say is what you are stuck with
all the news that's fit to print that is
believe it it was the interval in school
it was the paper that we would give
entities that they did in survival now I
always know that until I got together
that sometimes the New York Times thing
slip and I would agree with you that
gentleman in question has not been
divided but he's a member kris from
union and the time you know he EO is
emotion unquote of snake all right can I
take you up on that yes it belongs a
strong Union is also black earlier we
were told that these papers kind of a
monolithic incident we're monolithic and
subject to proprietors but object you
just made two interesting points there
that that it isn't monolithic that there
is a union which protects people that
this is not a system where there's an
arbitrary proprietor saying we're going
to do this over to do that really
Carl remember infertility Carl as a
publisher Carl is a publisher I have the
same unions that you have remember that
the New York Times the New York Post The
Daily News and the Amsterdam news formed
local three of the newspaper guild
in 1935 and we go by the same rules and
regulations that you go by because we
have a shout there too and the because
you can send them budgets in Siberia
while they're sitting in your office
mm-hmm let me cut it I think we only
have about 20 minutes or so for
questions and maybe half an hour I'll
give Alex a minute or two to respond
only because you can't control yourself
just an arbitrary power I mean anyone
who studies the dispersal of Sydney
schanberg in the opinion page not to
mention the behavior of the New York
Times the owner and publisher urban the
endorsement hi Daniel Patrick Moynihan a
number of years earlier these were both
unilateral decisions by the ball I do
know that the young he's going to be
writing to that I mean the thing to
avoid it the hypocrisy surrounding what
else was on your list Alex don't keep
going on the lake and the water what me
give me some more examples
oh the second point I want to come about
three points under was it not what you
said you said how is it that you made a
contrast between the immaterial opinion
of the time so it's all opinion and be
as its ears are revealed by opinions
whole it's a very good point I think
when you look at the last eight year the
editorial opinion particularly of the
New York Times and Washington knows and
I never said I said there was a
multiplicity I explicitly said papers
across the country many of them were
much more liberal than the New York
Times inaudible what that reveals I
think was that there was a mass movement
a politics which contrasted strongly
with a lead opinion there was it's to
fix difficut of the people against
intervention i've happen to be almost
entirely ignored by the mainstream but a
very strong popular left movement exists
person second so where did they get
their information
the third point where did they get their
information they did not get it in the
New York Times they got it from
if you haven't called I would hope you
have any on desk the rich variety of
alternative opinion on Central America
which that's exactly the point I'm
making
Angela's as expected I'm tryna say I'm
trying to make the contrast between the
influence on a leaked in this country on
the Congress and a mass movement there
is a difference you can't say on the
prostate it's like saying the Wall
Street Journal saying on the one hand we
have the power of the Dow Jones company
and the directors of the largest event
in the United States on the other hand
to show that we are balanced we have
Alex Coburn once every three weeks
there's a different I guess I not sure I
heard it right but I think what Carl was
saying is that since there are movement
newspapers in the United States which
tell us the truth about Nicaragua it
doesn't matter if the New York Times
[Music]
that's a little
that's a little better yes that's what
you call spin doctoring there it's not
at all what I said and if you'll give me
a chance I'll restate what I want to say
you know I'm I'm really called at the
treatment that mr. Mayer is getting from
the audience in the panel I think what
we're going to take questions let's not
let's not shout let's let people speak
and I'd like to let me show respond to
this much my objection was simply was
you know that he is not that allowed to
speak that he has not been allowed to
speak and to finish them I said on he's
trying to make some point I think he
should at least hear him out and not
distort what he said I mean that was
there was a total distortion of what he
said I don't know Saul I'm at work so
what I disagree with a lot of things
other people the palace said that I'm
not shouting at hissing Athen
I
I would like to as about sort of the
general thesis or general premises
underlying the panel this is really a
severe question I'm very curious about
at a meetings like this I always wonder
about it I'm not saying that the web
thing they're the best available or
anything like that I don't believe that
but I sort of wonder what is them what
is the ideal the kind of a media that
that we want in other countries as mr.
crostini pointed out many if not most
necessary service that a political party
or / tastic a particular group of people
and they have a very clear well-defined
point of view perhaps we should have a
unofficial newspaper the Republican
Party one for the Democratic Party and
then we would know you know where each
newspaper stood there be no question
about it no debate about it I when I
lived in the Grabbe la prensa was a
terrible newspaper and distorted
everything and published all kinds of
lied but I also didn't feel the
information I got from Hobby Cano was
very complete either when I was in
Moscow many many years ago long before
glass no I really felt starved for
information it was if it's very hard
I felt I really did not have a complete
picture of what was going on in the
world now it seems to me that the kind
of competition between newspapers we
have now that has uncovered a lot of
very important information about things
like Watergate and iran-contra is
perhaps something you would want to
think about before you give it up what
kind of papers do you want owned by a
cooperative of journalists perhaps I
mean what if the
owned by political party it seems
they're in excuse what do people want
possibly on truth let letter finish with
retakes a question okay let me just let
me just make hold on please because we
don't have floor mics and we have
questions in a second I'm going to have
to repeat them I want to raise one thing
so Paul can respond to it
what I've made my crack about I thought
let me let me just pose this and see if
I thought that Alex said many Americans
majority of Americans in fact as the
polls show opposed hunter aid right
whereupon crawl said right and where did
they get their information whereupon
Alex said not from the New York Times
from the alternative press whereupon
Carl said that's exactly my point now I
want to know that's exactly no no no the
my point is is that not only is there
the alternative press the National
Public Radio there's a home is a whole
array of sources that seek out and try
to do enterprising nonconformist
reporting that is that that is a
valuable source but also in the
mainstream press in the mainstream press
you get a lot of stories and get a lot
of different views and you get a rich
diversity I quite agree it's that you
can say as Churchill said of democracy
that the American press system is the
worst in the world save all the rest and
I stop right there okay let's
let me take question is it big lemon I'm
it's very difficult with these lights to
recognize anybody near the lights I will
try to get people down here yes don't be
too long I think
I think we I think I think we should be
entitled to a microphone - my name is
Michael Parenti and i'm a kanay Hey
all right I'm a conspiracy theorist and
I disagree with william Styron when he
says that Colonel North violated
everything the marine stood for I
believe that Colonel North stood for
everything that the Marines were and yet
the court form for more than a century
the Marines have been a force of
violence and suppression throughout the
world for the existing ruling interests
of this country and Colonel North did
that and he was that kind of force also
now that is immediately dismissed as a
conspiracy theory the remarkable thing
about Meyer and every time I'm on one of
these panels it comes up from from these
newspaper men Oh what do you have a
conspiracy theory you think you can say
you can say that you'll get my question
to me you can say that teachers can
organize and and pursue their interest
and you can say that farmers can
organize and this is their interests but
the minute you imply that people who own
the newspapers the wealth the land the
labor and the capital the factories the
industries in the banks of this country
organize and pursue their interests your
conspiracy theorists now
in contrast and contrast to the
conspiracy theory what mr. Mayer offers
us is the some nebulous theory that they
walk around in this sleep and don't care
about how their billions go don't care
about what people are thinking don't
care about what ideologies relax don't
care about what people are colonists and
and finally in contract what he also
offers is the coincidence theory I
wonder if they would comment if members
of the panel would comment on the
coincidence theory as opposed to the
conspiracy theory
[Music]
and I want to protest the lack of floor
microphones I think that's not very good
unfortunately this room doesn't have the
set up port I'm sorry and I just want to
point out for those who say question
questions we did say this was a
discussion period I'm not concerned if
people want to make a statement rather
than ask a specific question I'm only
concerned about the length of time that
they do it in just a couple of minutes
bill Tatum wants to respond Alex wants
for asylum I want to respond to his
statement about all of the law to agree
and attend to the range as an expiration
train is a drill instructor served in
the Korean conflict I resent what he
says about all the north and you bill
with it because I was there because I
believed and I still believe in this
country of ours I still believe in it
and I was a marine and I volunteered I
volunteered without the be and would
volunteer again if I believed but we
confuse the service I did not
on this on this matter of coincidence
theory which microwave actually had a
very good illustration right here in
Cambridge in the last few days now on
Election Day in Cambridge since husband
son bill there was a referendum proposed
[Applause]
and I'll briefly read you the terms it's
important to know what they took one
they call them the district represented
in the present to achieve a just and
lasting peace in the Middle East by one
demanding with Israel and it's violation
of Palestinian human rights and its
occupation of the West Bank to stopping
all expenditures of US taxpayers money
Israel's occupation of the West Bank and
Gaza three favoring the establishment of
an independent Palestinian state on the
West Bank and Gaza with peace for all
states in the region including Israel
now as many of you know this is very
immensely opposed by my other things
reps Joe Kennedy and Barney Frank and to
the surprise I think of all it passed
now if passed by twenty two thousand
seven hundred and eighty four to twenty
thousand four hundred and fifty second a
bit our famous tandem is a very
interesting political development
actually there are three other
initiatives across the country with them
very which fails therefore you have to
ask yourself here's an important
political expression how well was it
reported well it's not been reported to
my knowledge so far on the networks
which is perhaps not surprising in them
it wasn't a very sizable you know a
state episode it wasn't reported I don't
think in the New York Times now what
about the Boston Club
well the globe the day after conflated
the result as I understand it with not
exactly a similar initiative that was
put forward in Newton combine the two
results instead as a whole the or they
are spokesman for the opponents of the
things that the referendum had been
rejected they're quoted are Philip L
Nutter of the Jewish Community Relations
Council is saying that the organizers of
the referendum were quote very radical
and very Pro error they didn't call on
these reported did not call on the
people organizing the referendum the
next day yes the Boston Globe said that
in its roundup of the reports of you
know various election referendums issues
voters so figures were not available but
the referendum had been defeated and
finally today we can read the following
correction in the Boston Globe because
of incorrect information that provided
the globe the wrong results were
reported yes they are non-binding
question five calling on the US
government to achieve peace in the
Middle East
[Music]
the matter with approved now if you and
I would if you went through and you are
everybody involved and the Boston Globe
reporter to the editor you said what
happened man why did you screw up like
that why didn't you put it as an
important piece of news they would say
I'm sure pressure will advance crowd of
stories not very large
don't slip through the cracks before
they got it wrong
stringer wasn't there pressure of
deadlines couldn't find the guy's number
but he ended the day
[Music]
just include there it is is it
coincidence or is it conspiracy or is it
business decision
[Music]
the question is asking if the panel
would respond to the immediate treatment
of Bob Woodward's book veil which is
that is being attacked or ignored in the
mainstream media would anyone like to
respond in particular to the very front
page I don't think applause I'm sorry
they can't hear you oh well that's not
important because he works for the post
and the post published in a front page
for about a week but that maybe other
media to the north there's one here
Oh
[Music]
the question the questioner says that
CIA agent officers happens backwards as
journalist and James Lemoine and you
name someone else and Brian Joe
Brannigan appear to report so closely to
the State Department press releases that
they would like our comment on it no one
else is jumping I I work also for covert
action information bulletin and we've
dealt with this objective I'm not going
to I'm not about to say either of those
medicine CIA officer let me let me
preface my remarks by saying is very
true that the CIA has used journalists
sometimes only as agents sometimes in
fact regular CIA officers although they
say they don't do that now every time a
bill has been introduced in Congress to
forbid the CIA using journalists
undercover the bill has been defeated
and I would only say that in our
experience there are great many
reporters who don't have to be agents to
say these things on the one hand there
are many foreign correspondents who
simply erase US embassy on press
releases and put their own name on it
almost not I hasten to say four major
takers like the times of the post but
there's a great deal particularly of
foreign coverage which is is the
regurgitated State Department handout so
when you see these things that are so
similar it might just be the laziness
more than
something more sinister I think the
problem is that the intelligence
agencies do have considerable influence
over the press not necessarily directly
but very often indirectly they certainly
have many many agents working for the
foreign press most of the reports that
have been done say that the CIA has more
foreign correspondents on its payroll
than ap UPI tes and Reuters put together
and they probably do and they probably
have more money for it
they then spread stories which get
picked up by other people which then
serve the purpose of spreading their
distance made without the the end-user
having to be in Asia I don't think
anyone else has something more to say
about the specific well I guess I'm just
a little worried about there there's an
undertone here that you know I grew up
in the McCarthy period in which we had
witch hunting on the on the right
against people on the left and I think
there's a danger of the very reverse
phenomenon that when you get up and
without let them know when you get up
and without any corroboration suggest
the question and impeach the motives of
a journalist that's that's witch hunting
on the left and I think it's deplorable
[Music]
hold on one second mr. oh you know I I
can't just sit here and listen that you
know unsubstantiated allegation of that
type against a colleague of mine I don't
happen to agree with Bill Brannigan
political point of view when he went to
Central America has been a lot of time
talking to him and I think he comes by
his perspective and his point of view
honestly and is a pretty conservative
guy and accept the ways these and that's
the way he reports it and and I really
think it's the slanderous to accuse
someone of being a CIA agent when and
especially when there's no evidence I
have heard no evidence in saying well
you've all you certainly implied it we
don't think you mean yes okay hold on we
have an expression on the wall in my
sitting room it can't prove it you can't
use now we talk about the I talk about a
lot of things that mean related story to
you at the height of the famine in
Ethiopia I was there not only as a
reporter but I was working in the field
with the Polish helicopter team using a
Russian plane with Swedish doctors and
nurses going to the north country to
drop food in a cargo plane and going
down to distributed and
now helicopter because it was
mountainous country we found a plateau
that we collided in helicopter on we
would go there and that's I think the
best use of the Germans time any
constant is that but there were the
newspapers there in the Wallow province
well they weren't they with the bar but
out of the Dublin Alabama were reported
from a major newspaper in America and
when we got back after a day's dropping
food I stopped by the bar
is it hard and I said as any volunteer
would you write about today he said I'm
wrote about cholera and one I just
gotten back and it doctor exactly with
us on the trip from the World Health
Organization I don't hear anything above
column and you've written story new fowl
cholera in wallow with the coffee crop
is coming into need human again I
brethren took the darkest Alex I said
after static would be called I thought
you said his vision he says against
dysentery where did you get the story
from the column
because there was an administrator from
the Guinea
I spelled administrator as volunteer
with the color and this interior yes I
jumped further and tell them to change
that there was turn-key Midian and the
final reason for it was the difference
between they wanted to contain 30 things
I don't know who means you were ill
Ethiopian during that time but i have
dropped out into an area for thousands
of people were actually government and
the number one cash crop for yoga is
Indian company they say it's a monolith
country yet one of the most optimistic
things are the vasila curve in the
stream of peop it is the reason that it
becomes a market cook is that the
government gets better treatment from
the Eastern Bloc that is us from our own
country now they have Stax's and Markham
civilization
in all the squares and they had a garden
to keep the tears of death of our
kitchen but we have this fiction and
America that the people we deal here are
mountains and that puts the coming of
expense on the country and it makes it
very difficult for things to happen
positively out of Ethiopia in terms of
the people there being held and even
then even the family going to bed at
once four years ago I must say in
recording this that almost all the food
that would be building came from the
United States almost overcame so what
I'm saying is there may be people who
are FBI agents m-maybe but they don't
need the aisle even if you have somebody
who would take a story and prevent tiny
pillows for the sake of getting the same
one story and not having anything within
that reserves
what a piece are you so much to someone
over here okay one second again a CIA
FBI and so forth
Oh a tremendous upon Americans thinking
and I think everything is a trigger
committee pointed out the thousand full
is imprisonment of the IAEA now that's
important whether companies be paid off
by the CIA directly or whether he is
being rewarded and I think the process
of reward is going on all the time I
will give you two events one is for my
own field into society how is wrong
after Howard brawl was the psychiatrist
who treated Ernest having us anyway was
broken down at the 30 years persecuted
by the FBI and dr. Romer reported to the
anyway that's the road is now the editor
of the most important and most
influential psyche I think not
ostentatious Psychiatric Journal second
on the New York Times um as you meant it
about schanberg if schanberg had been on
the Phil all of that you wouldn't be
writing about GPS however he avoids us
he hadn't happenin
that is another on the other side Philip
Tina I had first experiences to a good
sources not CIA this estate corrupt with
murder
number one wasn't rob dyrdek and the
other involved gross misrepresentation
violent - it was the rub of the wall I
think he lied but I can't be sure
right he is not the person who with
reporting on the Intelligence Agency for
the time now we talked about mine
elliptic stuff there's one area where
America is admitted form as the Germans
were about the Jews that's the area they
they're both bill and bill Tatum's
public some that I could not specimen
ate with the utterly are you just to
learn by dr. Lerman - yes
basically to these two gentlemen the
sparkly major French women trade group
and I'm going to tell you that on the
16th of December there's going to be a
big meeting of the Trump and there's the
leaves about once a year
i I can't be a thing as a thermometer Oh
way up there
[Music]
if question the question for the paranal
is how can we change who set the agenda
what role does the public play in that
is that someone who wants to open up
experiment wonder you go first in there
I'll start by saying it's really hard
I said I'll start by saying that is
really hard to do and she was despite
the illusion that at least in papers and
I'm familiar with there's a willingness
to to listen there was that really is a
lot there's really a lot of illusion in
that but there are some ways that I know
people have been a little successful
that the globe and that is they come in
and they meet with editors and the more
they call up and the more they activate
and the more they come in and meet
somehow some of what they say gets
filtered in it doesn't necessarily mean
that stories or or opinions or articles
or whatever result but there's a
heightened awareness that there is a
different point of view because one of
the points that I think was alluded to
but not said is that the arrogance comes
in from people thinking that there's
only one point of view that's correct
and that happens to be a point of view
of a minority of people in the world but
a majority of people in America that is
a white male point of view from
middle-class perspective
and so the arrogance usually is to leave
on all the other points of view and when
there is a constant but rational
disagreement that those points have used
I'd be only one sometimes they get
listened to
Alex hold on Alex you want it I'm sorry
I'm sure we do Alex wanted to comment on
the previous question however well I
think there a number of stages the first
one is obviously criticism for a long
period I think the right had a monopoly
of that virtual monopoly in the form of
redeployment accuracy in media actually
were to believe the latest book on am
resin Hall at the New York Times they
had quite an effect on the outlook of
salt sugar the the owner at one point I
don't know if it's true or not
and I think gradually now I'd be enough
woman at the end of the Reagan not the
regular Bush period the Liberals and the
left have got their act together a bit
with the formation of senators and
accuracy in reporting or other
organizations like that there is no
doubt that one does need countervailing
pressure from the left at least so the
journalist in the middle can say well
I'm getting it from both sides
something is generally a deplorable
cop-out but does hold people sometimes
in the center the second point I think
is that the growth of the alternative
threat I think that the limit to what
that can be done in terms of criticism I
think in terms of pressuring things like
channels that in public the decline of
public television the person mentioned
television has been particularly signal
deplorable in the recent period and it's
also true I think that pressure on the
local stations you subscribe to
something abominable like live never
macneil-lehrer show to say you know why
don't why do they systematically exclude
from the people they talk to about 83%
of the American political spectrum for
example organized labor is barely ever
seen on McNiel Larry in any shape or
form this is by the way something people
talk about the rich variety available to
the consumer of news if you are looking
for any news about the American labor
movement which does after all contains
30 million people you'll look very long
time indeed the final point really comes
down to fill it apart isn't political
movements I think in the end sometimes
people think if they get Noam Chomsky to
run NBC News they'll be okay or bill
sharp or whoever obviously it would not
be in the end political parties that
agendas and newspapers can be in
lockstep with that party or whatever but
the existence of the party for example
take another thing it's hard to find
them the American mainstream agenda a
discussion in Searchlight medicine now
in social democratic countries even in
Canada a political party have been part
of the struggle to produce some kind of
socialized medicine
therefore it is on the general agenda
for a reporter to actually discuss it
you can look a very long time indeed
through the American press and ever
discover or find any opinion saying that
actually our nation all health insurance
in any any kind of form not the form
presented by the governor of the state
I'm sorry to say will not be that there
in the end you can never say that the
media in and of itself I think will
produce major change you have
including Claudia I just a footnote okay
one fact just a footnote 6 months ago
The Times published an editorial calling
for national health insurance and not in
the Dukakis form good somebody
[Music]
[Applause]
Express colonic the question is why did
the story which apparently broken got
some coverage in the Boston Globe about
former Nazis I take it you're talking
about not neo-nazis but although Nazis
in the Bush campaign in one way or
another why was that not picked up
anywhere was it that someone say in fact
it was picked up it was done as well
listen I don't know what climate these
people are living in we had several
stories on that we had an editorial
referring to those guys the old and all
the other way I'm sorry it's very hard
to hear I remember the story
[Music]
all right I think we're going to get a
little bit too I do is that if we if we
simply are going to holler about our
favorite censored story
let me get a couple more questions then
I think we have to go this one person
here and I wanna get someone back over
there okay done yes
oh sorry I'd like to know about a story
that's been terribly downplayed in the
US press and it's about the office of
public diplomacy for Latin America and
the Caribbean which was the most
pernicious domestic propaganda campaign
operative in the executive branch of the
United States government probably in
history but all we've had is this kind
of simply denials that it was effective
but Alex referred to norm Chomsky's
piece as being standing in testimony to
the efficacy of the OPD in terms of
completely squashing the debate on
Nicaragua so I'd like to know why for
the anti conspiracy theorists up here
why that story has been downplayed and
why they refused to look at something
that's a real conspiracy and admit it
and it and admitted its effectiveness I
just like to take up something here on
the conspiracy theory business back in
1980 I taught a course at the Fletcher
School and establishment institution at
Tufts University I would then a plane
and I happen to be sitting next to mark
Raskin and policy studies I told him I
was looking for some good speakers for
this course he said why don't you have
Noam Chomsky he said you know Chomsky
has made a great study of the coverage
or the lack of coverage of East Timor
and I have to confess when Mark told me
this this was the 1980 I wasn't really
quite sure what he's Timmer wasn't I got
very interested well Chomsky came around
to this class and I have to say that
despite my prior conception I never met
him before that despite the ferocity of
his views of his of his doctrines and
swapping the civility and courtesy the
almost elaborate courtesy of his manner
one me and the students over and he made
a very powerful case that because of the
bias in the press that because East
Timor was a an allied country to the
United States that the press underplay
the fact that the Indonesian government
our next sorry that Indonesia was an
allied country that that they had
annexed this former Portuguese colony in
1975 and that if you compare it for
example with Cambodia where there was a
courage of things that this is a
communist atrocity where the other was
not a communist atrocity well I got
quite interested in this and I went to
talk to the then Deputy Foreign editor
at the time and I said you know we've
had very poor coverage on this and he
said you're absolutely right there are a
dozen atrocities around the world that
we don't cover this is one for various
reasons so I took it up I wrote first an
editorial called an unjust war in East
Timor and I treasure the letter I got
from Chomsky he said I'm a hard man to
please I have no criticism of your
editorial it had a map and it said
exactly what the whole things had
happened we then ran it does another
editorial on it they were read they were
entered in the Congressional Record and
several congressmen then took up the
cause and then something was done in
Congress as a result of this but I want
to tell you the background of it when
Chomsky came around he had with him a
file of all the coverage in New York
Times The Washington Post and other
papers of him more and he would go to
the meticulous degree that if for
example the London Times had a piece on
East Timor and then it appeared in the
New York Times that if a paragraph was
cut out
he compared and he they look this key
paragraph right near the end which is
really what tells the whole story was
left out of the New York Times version
of the London
so I said to to to Chomsky at the time I
said well it may be that you're
misinterpreting ignorance haste deadline
pressure etc for some kind of determined
effort to suppress an element of the
story he said mr. Mayer if that happened
once I would agree with that but it
happens twice three and in my case
he said I've actually found it happen
five times I laughed and I said mr.
Chomsky five times it happens five times
it happens a hundred times now the point
that I'm trying to say is that the
number one that Chomsky had a point that
we then did something about it and one
would have thought given the the gravity
of what we were doing and breaking
establishment silence on this that at
least either Haig or Shultz would have
been on the phone saying why are you
finally running these troublemaking
editorials on this atrocity in Indonesia
the sad thing that happened is that
there was virtually no reaction there
was no reaction in part because and this
is something as the left may find it
hard to accept that in the United
Nations is always easy to get a
resolution against Israel it is
impossible to get a resolution naming a
country against another third world
nation and that the United Nations did
nothing about it nothing is going on is
now 15 years I say this by way of a case
study a small case study to show that
however impervious the institution may
seem from the outside it's not true that
if you make a recent case on the merit
to someone in there who takes it
seriously and listens to it they will
try to do something about it so when the
question comes up what can you do about
the something you don't like do just
what Chomsky did and I think you can get
a response